Okay, let's look at the solution for
this provider pattern, or
a compound pattern exercise.
So the first thing that I like to do
is to create just a separate file where
we're going to store this component.
And I'm actually just going to move a lot
of functionality from input to FlyOut.
So don't get confused now,
I'm just going to copy paste.
So the first thing that I'm gonna
do is I'm gonna get rid of this.
So we gonna create like a FlyOutContext.
FlyOutContext is React.createContext.
This is going to keep track of
the state of our FlyOuts, or yeah, or
compound components and
see if it's open values, stuff like that.
Then we're going to create the FlyOuts
which is just going to be the provider.
So the first thing that we're
gonna do is return.provider.
It doesn't auto close,
I'm used to that it auto close,
I guess then prompts a children's
gonna get props here.
And the value that we pass here is, again,
like that functionality that we see here.
So we wanna get the open toggle.
Yeah, so we have the open
setOpen value setValue, or
I guess we just have toggle actually
because it uses to setOpen.
Okay, cool.
So now we have this FlyOut
which I'm just going to export.
And then we also want to add,
what else was it, the FlyOut.input and
List item and ListItem.
So the FlyOut.input, export function or
actually it could just be a function
input, which was gonna get props.
So this one is going to consume that
provider that we just created here.
So I need the value, toggles,
setValue is Reacts.useContext.
I could have just created a separate
hook for this, use FlyOutContext but
I haven't done that.
So here,
which then again returns this input,
Okay, return, input.
Now this is already using the toggle,
value, setValue,
all the stuff that we had before.
And then I also need to create a list,
again gets props.
This one just needs to know if
it should be open or not, so
that's also get passed to your open,
return open.
Let's see how we add that here.
So we have the open FlyOut
list is going to copy this.
We didn't include the open there.
I think I did.
Yeah, return open.
Now it doesn't care about the actual
listings, it just needs to render this UL
and then the children that we eventually
pass to it, or props that children serve.
And then we also need to create a list,
there.
And then we also have an item, props, and
that is just going to be
this little list item here.
And this doesn't need to key,
just needs to know the props of children.
Okay props, and then we're going to
use the setValue from this context.
So we're going to get setValue.
I need to return it obviously, return.
So I'm just going to add another proper,
it's gonna be like props up value.
This is kind of similar to
what we saw in these examples,
just to make it easier to set the value,
wait, now we got it,
this value, to essentially, or
to eventually set the state.
So on mouse down so
when we click it we set the value to
that props up value that we pass.
All right, so now we have the list,
the item, and
the input components and is throwing
an error now because it's duplicate.
But to make this a compound component
we just need to say FlyOut.Input,
FlyOut.Input is equal
to the input component.
FlyOut.List is equal to list component,
and FlyOut.,
I think I probably didn't have the, yeah,
flyout.listItem is item for example.
All right, so now we have our compound
component, the FlyOut component.
So now we created the context.
The FlyOut itself is provider like we saw
before, so this one contains the state and
passes it down to any children.
And we see that the children here,
they use this context,
they consume this context which
they can then in turn use.
So in the input component we can
now just import this FlyOut.
FlyOut, hopefully I exported it,
I may have forgotten to do that.
Okay, no, I did not.
So we can just do return.
I'm just gonna create it here,
FlyOut, nope.
Then first we have the FlyOut.input.
Now does doesn't need any props or
anything,
we're just rendering the input right now.
But you can see here it's just the input.
But then we also want to
render the list which is
attached to that input, so
we have the flyout.list.
And within this list we want
to render these list items.
Now these list items are based on
the listings that we map here.
So we can still use this part, But
then instead of just rendering
a ListItem here we do FlyOuts.ListItem.
FlyOuts.ListItem, cool.
So now we just set
the value is listing.name.
Okay we don't need this anymore,
we also don't need that.
We do need a key because we're still
mapping over React components,
and it also expected this
value prop here in FlyOuts.
So, now let's see.
Return, We can get rid
of all of these things.
Let's see.
Okay, so now when we refresh,
[LAUGH] Wait, where did it go?
Let's see.
Are we rendering the Flyouts, input, list?
FlyOut.list equals list.
Let's see if it's open or not.
True, FlyOut.list.
Maybe I don't have the right
CSS selectors here,
let's look at the solution right here.
It could also just be stuck,
this thing again.
This is the solution that I wrote down
here is the exact same state as where
I left the other one off, so don't worry.
So we can have this FlyOuts, and
in here, Yeah, so
we're not actually using this.
So here in the input, one thing about
the compact component is that we
can just use these return
components whatever we want.
If we wanna somehow render three
inputs we could do that if we want to.
Is not my friend today.
Anyways, normally you would see three
input components just because it doesn't
care about the component itself,
it will just render whatever
will pass his children.
So the compound pattern is a really nice
way to create those dynamic flexible
stateful components, and kind of have
this plug-and-play method that you both,
like I said, often see unlike
those component libraries.
Yeah, so this is a really good
example of where it is useful for
smaller context to use
the provider pattern.
Because it was super easy for
us to just create a context and
share the state with so
many child components.
We don't know what the child components
are cuz we can dynamically render them.
And the child components only
care about certain values, so
it's really nice to destructure
them from the context that way.
Yeah, any questions?
I know this is a lot to take in cuz
it's a combination of many things that
we just covered.
So I completely understand if it's still
a bit, okay, but why would you use it?
Of course also,
this website will always be online so
if you ever wanna read back what we
did today, free to check that out.
Sure, yeah, what's the question?
>> Can we use the memo and
useCallback to avoid rerendering issues?
>> It depends on the data that you're
getting, but yeah, usually you can use
useMemo and useCallback to ensure that we
aren't unnecessarily updating the states.
In this case, I mean, this is not
specific to the compound pattern,
this is just specific to,
I guess hooks in general.
So, in some cases you may not
necessarily need to reupdate a hook if
the end result stays the same.
In that case we can memo-ize the results
or memo-ize the actual function that we
pass to the useCallback to make sure
that we don't generate another hook for
that specific.
Or create another function for
that hook, if that makes sense.
I'm really bad at explaining those
two hooks because they are so
specific, but once you know
the difference between useMemo and
useCallback, they return the same result,
they have the same use case.
But useCallback expects a function,
whereas useMemo expects a value,
as far as I know.
But yeah, these are very
useful hooks if you are using
data that are within a component
that shouldn't rerender too often.
But if it's highly dynamic data make sure
that you're not using useMemo where it
shouldn't.
Cuz then you might actually end up
with the opposite where you're,
why is my data not updating?
Why is my component not updating?
It's because it's using a memo-ized value.
Yeah, those are the built-in hooks.
I mean, if you get started with hooks,
definitely make sure to check them out
because the React core team,
they expose so
many useful hooks that you can use to
get really good performance website.
So you don't have to use all the community
hooks, but it's definitely good to know
what's out there and what you can use to
decrypt performance, stateful components.
Cuz of course it's always
an issue with React,
does it render too often?Where
do I put the state?
But yeah, it's a different way of thinking
about things with hooks, I guess.